So in the last episode
I talked about how
you can work with Polymer
and JavaScript routers,
but I'm sure some of you
were thinking, hey dude,
this is web components.
Can't I just do all my routing
with an element or something?
Now for anyone out there
thinking that this episode is
just for you, I'm Rob Dodson.
Today on Polycast, I'm
going to be showing you
how to do all your routing
using nothing but HTML, so let's
check it out.
So today's element
extraordinaire
is called more-routing.
It's a little library of
elements thrown together
by a member of the Polymer team.
And to be honest, it could
not be easier to work with.
First, you configure it to
tell it what kind of routes
you want.
You can either do hash
routes or Pretty URLs.
Then you define
your list of routes.
You can optionally
give each route
a name so they're easier
to refer to later.
So I've got these
two routes here.
I'm calling the first one
home and the second one users.
Lastly, you can drop
in any element that
extends core-selector,
and give it
a few children that sync
up with the various routes.
Since the core-pages
element that we've
covered in the previous
episodes extends core-selector,
we can use that for our example.
So let's hop over to another
code editor and get cracking.
Now the first thing I need to
do is install more routing.
So over in terminal,
I'm going to type
out bower install Polymore--
note the spelling there--
more-routing.
Polymore is a side
project created by one
of the Polymer team members.
It's basically just a,
kind of, catch-all place
for interesting elements
that he's created.
Next, I'm going to create
a routes HTML file,
and this way I can keep all
my routes in a separate place,
so they don't clutter
up my main document.
Inside of routes
HTML, I'll first
import the more-routing element.
And I'm going to configure it
using the more-routing config
element.
I'm going to tell it
to use hash URLs so I
don't have to bother with
setting up the [? server. ?]
Then I'll define
a list of routes.
I can give each
route a name-- so
that way I can easily
refer to it later--
and a path, which
is going to actually
be used to update my URL.
Now over in my
elements HTML file,
I've already got a
few elements imported,
so I'm just going
to add a new line
to import my routes.html file.
And back on my
main document, I'll
create a
more-route-selector element.
And I'm going to drop
in a few core pages tags
for it to control.
The last thing I'm going to
add some sections in here,
and just fill those with
some [? W ?] content.
And, very important, I'm going
to give each section a route
attribute, which matches one
of those named routes I created
in the routes HTML file.
Now I'm also going
to go up top here,
and I'm going to wrap my core
menu in a route-selector.
I'm going to give each menu
item a route attribute as well.
I'm also going to give
these anchors URLs.
And to do this, I'm going to use
more-routing's some very handy
URL4 helper.
So I pass to URL4 the name
of all my various named
routes, and that way, I can
generate these URLs really
easily.
I don't have to explicitly
write the path in there, which
is really nice in case
the path to, for instance,
the users section, if that
needs to change at some point,
the name of the route
will remain the same.
The path can change
and I don't have
to go back and update my
code in a bunch of places.
Now if I pop open
my browser, you'll
see that I can click on
the different menu items.
And it's going to
update the URL, as well
as the content in the page.
The important thing
to note here is
that, so far, I haven't
written any JavaScript, which
is pretty cool.
Now some of you
might be wondering,
how can I handle
parameters in my routes?
For example, if you're
in a user section,
you've got the
username up in the URL.
You might want to actually
use that in your application.
So let me show you
how to hook that up.
I'm going to add a new
route for a specific user,
and name it user-info.
And I'm going to nest this route
underneath my existing users
route.
Note that the route has
a colon in this URL here.
Now what this is
going to do is it's
going to create a property
on the params object,
with the key name.
And that way I can use it
to access the value later.
Now you can create any
kind of key you want.
For instance, you could write
colon [? fu, ?] and then you
would have a property
called, [? params.fu. ?]
Over in my users
section, I'm just
going to add an anchor
for a user named
Rob, using the URL4 helper.
I'm also going to pass
a second parameter
to the URL4 method, which will
populate the anchor's href.
So this anchor would
link to /users/Rob.
Then in my route
selector, I'm going
to bind the selected
params attribute to a scope
variable called params.
Selected params is
an object exposing
the parameters for my URL.
But then I can create a new
section with a matching user
info route attribute,
and just populate it
with some dummy text that
uses that params.name binding.
Now when I pop open my browser,
and go to the users section,
I can click that little link,
and see the parameter up there
in my URL, and the value
gets reflected on the page.
Pretty neat.
And there you have it, routing
using nothing but HTML.
It's a really fast
and convenient way
to wire up the application,
and it definitely
cuts down on boilerplate code.
Now you're ready to go build
something really awesome.
Be sure to hit me
up on Twitter to let
me know what you've created.
Also, make sure you click
the Subscribe button
so you see our future episodes.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MIDI MUSIC PLAYING]